Prebid 10 release notes (#6113)
prebid/prebid.github.io: dev-docs/pb10-notes.md

* Eids in `user.eids` are appended to the array in `user.ext.eids` and de-duplicated.

## TypeScript and Build Updates

* **TypeScript files are now accepted in the code base. Tooling and linting were updated accordingly.**
* The build target browser use statistics are now updated as part of the build process.
* Tests now target Chrome 109 as the minimum version. `not dead` was added to the babel target.
* **The `pbYield` helper was added and greedy rendering is disabled by default.**

## API Changes

* The `ADPOD` mediatype has received a deprecation warning.
* Bid response helper methods (`getBidResponses*` and `getNoBids*`) now return an array which also exposes the array under `.bids` for backward compatibility.
* `getHighestUnusedBidResponseForAdUnitCode` returns null instead of an empty object when no suitable bid exists.
* **Schain data now lives under `ortb2.source.ext.schain` and is normalized when provided in first party data. The module is now superfluous for publishers transitioned to seeing this object directly and will be removed in the future.**

> * **Bid adapters supporting the `NATIVE` mediatype no longer send legacy targeting keys. Please migrate to the new setup.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Native ad units no longer support `sendTargetingKeys`, and native key-value pairs can no longer be sent to the ad server. Please migrate to a newer setup.**
```

`sendTargetingKeys` doesn't concern adapters - it's the second entry in [a table of choices](https://docs.prebid.org/prebid/native-implementation.html) (sigh) that publisher has on how to set up native creatives.

> * The deprecated `createBid` helper and non-varying `statusMessage` fields were removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `statusMessage` and `getStatusCode()` properties were removed from bid objects.
```

createBid shouldn't be of interest to anyone (not even adapters)

* **The DFP modules have been renamed to GAM modules (`gamAdServerVideo`, `gamAdpod`, etc.). Please migrate to the new names.**

> * **Default configuration of various PBS Host companies has been removed.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Default configuration of various PBS Host companies has been removed. The PBS adapter now requires an explicit endpoint in its configuration.**
```

---
layout: page_v2
title: Prebid.js 10.0 Release Notes & Publisher API Changes
description: Description of the breaking changes included for Prebid.js 10.0
sidebarType: 1
---

# Prebid.js 10.0 Bidder Interface and Publisher API Changes

{:.no_toc}

This document describes the changes included for Prebid.js version 10.0.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Publisher Summary

1. A large number of obsolete modules have been removed. Many modules have changed name. See below for the list.
2. The legacy method of native targeting keys, `sendTargetingKeys`, has been removed.
3. `pbadslot` has been removed from the preAuction module. Use `ortb2Imp.ext.gpid` instead.
4. The API methods `getBidResponses` and `getNoBidsForAdUnitCode` now return arrays of bids.

> 5. TypeScript support has landed and Node.js 20+ is required to build.

Reviewer: 6. Using prebid as an NPM dependency no longer requires using Babel and Prebid's Babel configuration.

> 5. TypeScript support has landed and Node.js 20+ is required to build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. TypeScript support has landed and Node.js 20+ is required to build.
6. Using prebid as an NPM dependency no longer requires using Babel or Prebid's Babel settings.
```
